# 100 React Questions (Files & Folder)

## Q1. What is NPM? What is the role of node_modules folder? `V. IMP.`

NPM (Node Package Manaher) is used to manage the `dependencies` for your React project. including the `React library` itself.

## Q2. What is the role of public folder in React?  

Public folder contains `static assets` that are served `directly` to the user's browser, such as `images, fonts and the index.html` file.

## Q3. What is the role of src folder in React?  

src folder is used to `store all the source code` of the  application which is then responsible for the dynamic changes in your web application. 

## Q4. What is the role of index.html page in React? `V. IMP.`

* index.html file is the `main HTML file (SPA)` in React application.
* Here the div with `"id=root"` will be replaced by the `component` inside index.js file.

## Q5. What is the role of index.js file and ReactDOM in React? `V. IMP.`

* ReactDOM is a JavaScript library that renders components to the DOM or browser.
* The index.js is the JavaScript file that replaces the `root` element of the index.html file with the newly rendered components.

    ```javascript
    import React from "react";
    // import ReactDOM 
    import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";
    import "./index.css";
    import App from "./App";

    // store the reference of root to a 'root' variable
    const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(
    document.getElementById("root")
    );

    // call the render method of the variable.
    root.render(
    <React.StrictMode>
        <App />
    </React.StrictMode>
    );
    ```

## Q6. What is the role of App.js file in React? `V. IMP.`

* App.js file contains the `root component (App)` of React application.
* App component is like a `container` for other components.
* App.js defines the structure, layout, and routing in the application.

    ```javascript
    import AppChild from "./Others/AppChild";

    function App() {
        return (
            <div>
                <AppChild/>
            </div>
        )
    }

    export default App;
    ```

## Q7. What is the role of function and return inside App.js?  

**Function**
* The function keyword is used to `define a JavaScript function` that represents your React component.
* function is like a `placeholder` which contains all the code or logic of the component.
* The function takes in `props` as its argument (if needed) and `returns JSX`.

**Return**
* return is used to return the `element` from the function.

## Q8. Can we have a function without a return inside App.js?  

`Yes` a fucntion without a return statement is possible.

* In that case, your component will not render anything in UI.
* The common use case is for `logging` purpose.

## Q9. What is the role of export default inside App.js?  

`Export` statement is used to make a component available for import using **"import"** statement in other files.

## Q10. Does the file name and the component name must be same in React?  

`No` the file name and the component name don't have to be the same.

* However, it is recommended to keep them same for easier to organize and understand your code.

<hr>

[Previous](./2.Basics-2.md): React Basic II <br>
[Next](./4.JSX.md): JSX

<!---
Adarsh 
28th July 2024
06:30 AM
(15:40)
--->