# 100 React Questions (JSX)

## Q1. What is the role of JSX in React? (3 points) `V. IMP.`

* JSX stands for `JavaScript XML`

* JSX is used by React to write `HTML-like code`

* JSX is converted to JavaScript via tools like `Babel`. **(Because Browser understand JavaScript not JSX)**

## Q2. What are the 5 Advantages of JSX? `V. IMP.`

* Improve code readability and writability

* Error checking in advance (Type safety)

* Support JavaScript expressions

* Improved performance

* Code reuseability

## Q3. What is Babel?

`Babel` in React is used to trabspile JSX syntax into reglar JavaScript which browser can understand.

## Q4. What is the role of Fragment in JSX? `V. IMP.`

* In React, a fragment is a way to `group multiple children's` elements.

* Using a Fragment prevents the addition of unnecessary nodes to the DOM.

```javascript
return(
    <>
        <div>This is a div</div>
        <p>This is a paragraph</p>

        <button>This is a button</button>
    </>
)
```

## Q5. What is Spread Operator in JSX?

The spread operator `(...)` is used to expand or spread an array or object.

```javascript
const props = {name: 'Hello', noun: 'World'};

return(
    <>
        <ChildComponent {...props}>
    </>
)
```

```js
function ChildComponent(props){
    return(
        <div>
            {props.name}, {props.noun}
        </div>
    )
}
```
## Q6. What are the types of Conditional Rendering in JSX? `V. IMP.`

* **If / else** statements
* **Ternary** operator
* **&&** operator
* **Switch** statement

```javascript
// If/else statements
function MyComponent() {
    if (2 > 1) {
        return "abc";
    } else {
        return "xyz";
    }
}

// Ternary operator
function MyComponent() {
    return 2 > 1 ? "abc" : "xyz";
}

// && operator
function MyComponent() {
    return 2 > 1 && "abc";
}

// Switch statement
function MyComponent() {
    const value = 2;
    switch (value) {
        case 2:
            return "abc";
        case 1:
            return "xyz";
        default:
            return null;
    }
}
```

## Q7. How do you iterate over a list in JSX? What is map() method?

**map()** method allows you to iterate over an array and modify its elements using a callback function. 

```javascript
function App() {
    const numbers = [1,2,3,4,5];

    return (
        <>
            {
                number.map((number)=>(number * 2))
            }
        </>
    );
}
```

> A callback function is a function passed as an argument to another function, which is then invoked within the outer function to complete a specific task.

## Q8. Can a browser read a JSX File?

* **No**, browsers cannot directly interpret or understand JSX files.

* Babel takes JSX and converts it into equivalent JavaScript code that browsers can understand.

## Q9. What is Transpiler? What is the difference between Compiler & Transpiler?

**Transpiler**

* A Transpiler is a tool that converts source code from one high-level programming language(JSX) to another high-level programming language(JavaScript). `Example: Babel`

**Compiler**

* A compiler is a tool that converts high-level programming language(Java) into a lower-level language(machine code or bytecode).

## Q10. Is it possible to use JSX without React?

* **Yes**, it's possible to use JSX without React by creating your own transpiler like Babel.

* However, this is not recommended since JSX is tightly integrated with React and relies on many React-specific features.

<!---
Adarsh 
28th July 2024
04:30 PM
(11:02)
--->