# 100 Node Questions (Basics - 1)

## Q1. What is Node.js?

* Node isneither a language nor a framework.

* Node/Node.js is a `runtime environment` for executing JavaScript code on the server side.

> Every language needs a framework to simplify and make the things easier

## Q2. How Node is a runtime environment on server side? What is V8?

* Browser execute JavaScript code on the client side, and similarly, Node.js executes JavaScript code on the server side on the server side.

* **`V8`** is a Javascript engine for the JavaScript language. (Client - Server side)

## Q3. What is the difference between Runtime environment & Framework?

* **Runtime Environment**: Primarily focuses on providing the necessary infrastructure for `code execution`, including services like memory management and I/O operations.

* **Framework**: Primarily focuses on `simplifying the development process` by offering a structured set of tools, libraries, and best practices.

## Q4. What is the difference between Node.js & Express.js?

- **Node.js** is a `runtime environment` that allows the execution of JavaScript code server-side.

- **Express.js** is a `framework` built on the top *Node.js*.
  - It is designed to *simplify* the process of building web applications and APIs by providing a set of features like a simple *routing system*, middleware support, etc.

## Q5. What are the differences between Client-Side (Browser) & Server-Side (Node.js)?

| Feature | Client-Side (Browser) | Server-Side (Node.js/Server) |
|---|---|---|
| Environment Location | Runs on the user's web browser. | Runs on the server. |
| Primary Languages | HTML, CSS, JavaScript. | JavaScript |
| Document/Window/ Navigator/ Event Objects | Yes | No |
| Request/Response/ Server/ Database Objects | No | Yes |
| Responsibilities | Handles UI display, interactions, and client-side logic. | Handles business logic, data storage/ access, authentication, authorization etc. |

<!---
Adarsh 
29th July 2024
04:35 PM
(21:48)
--->