# 100 Node Questions (Express - Middleware)

## Q1. What is Middleware in Express.js and when to use them? `V. IMP.`

A middleware in Express.js is a function that handles HTTP requests, performs operations, and passes control to the next middleware.

Middleware can be used for various purposes, such as logging, authentication, parsing request bodies, error handling, and more.

### When to Use Middleware

* **Request Logging:** Track requests made to your application.

* **Authentication and Authorization:** Protect routes by ensuring that users are authenticated and authorized to access them.

* **Parsing Request Bodies:** Parse incoming request bodies, making it easier to work with data sent in requests.

* **Serving Static Files:** Serve static assets such as images, CSS files, and JavaScript files.

* **Error Handling:** Catch and handle errors gracefully in your application.

## Q2. How do you implement middleware in Express.js?

* Initialize an Express application.

* Define a middleware function myMiddleware.

* Use `app.use()` to mount myMiddleware globally, meaning it will be executed for every incoming request to the application.

* Finally, we start the server by listening on a specified port (defaulting to port 3000) using `app.listen()`.

    ```js
    // Create and execute middleware
    const express = require("express");
    const app = express();

    // Define middleware function
    const myMiddleware = (req, res, next) => {
    // Middleware logic goes here
    res.send("Interview Happy!");
    next(); // Call the next middleware function
    };

    // Use middleware globally for all routes
    app.use(myMiddleware);

    // Start the server
    const PORT = 3000;
    app.listen(PORT, () => {
    console.log(`Server is running on port ${PORT}`);
    });
    ```

## Q3. What is the purpose of the app.use() function in Express.js?

The `app.use()` method is used to **execute(mount)  middlware**  functions globally.

## Q4. What is the purpose of the next parameter in Express.js?

The next parameter is a callback function which is used to `pass control to the next middlware` function in the stack.

## Q5. How to use middleware globally for a specific route?

Use `app.use('/specificRoute', myMiddleware)` to use middleware globally for a specific route in Express.js

```js
const express = require("express");
const app = express();

const middleware = (req, res, next) => {
  res.send('Middleware for specific route');
  next();
};

// Use middleware globally for specific routes
app.use('/example', middleware); // (Here) <--------------------------

const PORT = 3000;
app.listen(PORT, () => {
  console.log(`Server is running on port ${PORT}`);
});
```

## Q6. What is Request Pipeline in Express?

The request pipeline in Express.js is a series of middleware functions that handle incoming HTTP requests and pass control to the next function.

[Image2]

<!---
Adarsh 
31th July 2024
12:01 PM
(18:18)
--->